
### Goals
- The trainee will get to know how to handle IP addresses
- The trainee will get familiar with the concept of routing
- The trainee will understand some layer 3 protocols

### Tasks
- IP Addresses
  - Explain in your own words what is a subnet mask, and why is it needed
  - Explain the different address classes (Classes A-E)
  - What would be the minimal network size for a network with 12 hosts? what would be its subnet mask?
  - What would be the minimal network size for a network with 600 hosts? what would be its subnet mask?
  - How many hosts can the network 10.10.128.0/22 hold? what would be the first valid ip adress? what would be the last valid ip adress?
  - Explain what are private network addresses, where are they used and what are their addresses?
  - What IP address is used to describe "myself"? what is the common name for this address?
  - In Linux, how can you see the IP addresses and subnet masks a network interface has?
  - In Linux, add the address 12.13.14.0/24 to one of your network interfaces
  - In what files in a Linux system does the IP address of an interface is saved?
- Protocols
  - ARP
    - Explain the flow of the ARP protocol
    - What is "ARP spoofing" and how does it work?
    - What is the ARP table in a Linux machine? how can one see his ARP table?
    - Use `arping` to send ARP requests from one machine to another machine
    - Explain what is gratuitous ARP and its uses
  - ICMP
    - Explain what is the purpose of ICMP
    - Give 3 example for uses of ICMP in which the ICMP packets are not invoked by a human
    - What fields does the ICMP header contain? Explain each field
- Static Routing
  - When do we need to route packets?
  - What is the default gateway?
  - In Linux, add a new static route of your choice to your machine
  - In Linux, change your default gateway. Can you reach the internet? why?
  - In what files in a Linux system does the default gateway ip is specified?
- NAT
  - What is the main use of NAT?
  - What are the pros and the cons of using NAT?
  - Explain the differences between DNAT, SNAT and PAT?
  - How does the router know to whom should the returned packet be transfered?
- Routing Schemes
  - Read about the different routing schemes:
    - Unicast
    - Broadcast
    - Multicast
    - Anycast
    - Geocast
  - Give an example for a usage of each one
  - Explain how does a host send a broadcast packet
  - Explain how does a host send a multicast packet
- Packets
  - Describe the packet header of IPv4 packets
  - Explain what does the **TTL** field do and why do we need it
- Routing
  - Why do we need routers
  - What is an Autonomous System? (AS)
  - Read about routing protocols.
    - Why are they used for?
    - What are the different kinds?

