### Goals
- The trainee will understand what the standard streams are
- The trainee will understand how to redirect the input/output/errors of a program
- The trainee will understand what pipes are and how to use them
- The trainee will learn how to use pipes for automating repetitive tasks

### Tasks
- Read about the standard streams in Linux (STDIN, STDOUT and STDERR) -- standard input redirects data from the user to the program, standard output writes the data that is generated by a program, and standard error writes the errors generated by a failed program. 
- What is the file descripotor of each one of the standard streams? -- 0 - in, 1- out, 2- err
- When redirecting STDIN to a file, how does the program know to read from the file instead of the regular STDIN? because it is redirected to stdout of the file (>)
- Explain the following command: `cp ./file1 ./dir1/ >> cp-out.txt 2>&1` -- copying file1 to dir1 and appending cp-out.txt while 2>&1 redirects the standard error to the standard output so they appear together and can be jointly redirected to a file.
- Read about pipes (Linux pipes) and explain what it is -- a way to send data from one process to another temporarily, named pipes are continues as long as the system lasts and can be used to communicate between processes on the same computer or on different computers.
- Write a command that prints out to the screen the last 4 lines of the file /etc/passwd -- tail -n 4 /etc/passwd
- Write a command that prints out to the screen the 10th line of the file /etc/passwd -- head -n 10 /etc/passwd | tail -n 1
- Read about `tee` and `xargs` commands -- tee command reads the standard input and writes it to both the standard output and one or more files. df -h | tee test2. xargs is used to pipe to commands that cannot accept standard input as arguments, it reads items from standard input as separated by blanks and executes a command once for each argument. echo 'one two three' | xargs mkdir.
- Create an ip scanner (ping once every ip address in 10.3.3.0/24 subnet) using the `seq` and `xargs` commands
-- seq 254 | xargs -P255 -I% -d"\n" ping -W 1 -c 1 10.3.3.%
d - delimiter, removes space or /n, -p255 to create a process for each number, -I% to replace % character with the standard input.
